---
password: cbdeptrai
---
# IELTS SPEAKING SAMPLE TEST
## Part 1
### Introduction
#### 1. Work and Study
- Are you working or are you a student?
- What is a typical day of your work/study?
- What do/don’t you like about your work/major?
- Do you like working in the morning / evening? ~Do you work best in the morning or in the evening?
- What keeps you motivated in your work/study?
- Would you like to change your job / study if you had a chance now?
- What technology/electronic devices do you use in your work / study?
- Who helped you in your study?
- Which subject do you like best at school?
- Are the courses at school as expected?
- Is your job popular in Vietnam?
- What are the benefits of studying a field you like?
- How do you go to school/work?
- Do you often use the computer or the tablet?
- How do you feel after a day of studying/working?
#### 2. Home/Accommodation
- Do you live in a house or an apartment?
- Who do you live with? How long have you lived there?
- What do you enjoy most about your house?
- Is there anything you would like to change about your house?
- What can you see from the window of your house?
- What kind of accommodation would you like to live in the future?
- Which room do you like most in your house? / Which room does your family spend most of the time in?
- Why is it your choice to live in this house?
- What’s the difference between where you are living now and where you have lived in the past?
- Are the transport facilities to your home very good?
#### 3. Living area
- Where do you live? / Tell me about your living area
- Is it a good place for families with children to grow up?
- Is it a friendly place to live?
- Would you like your area you live in to have any upgrades in the future?
- What do people in your area often do in their free time?
- Would you like to move somewhere else in the future?
- Do you know your neighbors well?
#### 4. Hometown
- Where are you from?
- What do/don’t you like about your hometown?
- How has your hometown changed during the past few years?
- Would you like to live there in the future?
- Would you like to live in the countryside in the future? Do you like living in the countryside?
- Did you learn about your hometown via history lessons?
- Is there anything famous in your hometown?
- Is your hometown historically famous?

### New topics

#### 1. Learning about Science
- Do/did you enjoy science lessons at school? (Why/Why not?)
- Would you like to know more about science? (Why/Why not?)
- Do you watch science programmes on TV? (Why/Why not?)
- Are science museums popular in.../your country? (Why/Why not?)

#### 2. History
- Do you like history as a subject in your school? Why?
- When was the last time you read a book about history?
- Have you visited any history museums?
- Do you like watching documentaries/movies related to history?
- What historical event do you find most interesting?
- Do you think history is important?
- Do you like to watch programs on TV about history?
- Do you think the internet is a good place to learn about history?

#### 3. Public Transport
- What do people think of public transport?
- Do you like long-distance public transportation? Why?
- What form of transport do you usually use?
- How often do you use public transportation?
- How is the transport in your country?
- Is there lots of traffic jam?

#### 4. Free Time & Weekend
- Do you like to go to the cinema/movies at weekends? (Why/Why not?)
- Who do you go with? Alone or with others?
- What do you enjoy doing most at weekends? (Why/Why not?)
- Are you planning to do anything special next weekend? (Why/Why not?)
- What kinds of activities do you often do in your spare time?
- How do you often relax yourself on weekends?
- How do your surrounding friends relax?

#### 5. Number
- What numbers do you like?
- What numbers are important to you?
- Can you remember phone numbers?
- Do you need to use numbers in the future?
- Are you good at math?

#### 6. Spend Time by yourself
- Do you like to spend time by yourself or with your friend? Why?
- When was the last time you spent time by yourself?
- What did you do?
- Do you want to spend more time by yourself?

#### 7. Art
- Do you like art?
- Did you take art lessons in your childhood?
- Have you ever been to the art gallery?
- Do you often go to art galleries?
- Is it interesting to become an artist?
- Are there any paintings on the wall of your home?
- What kind of pictures do you like to put up in your home?

#### 8. Pen and Pencil
- Which one do you often use: pen or pencil?
- When was the last time you bought a pen or pencil?
- How do you think if someone sends you a pen as a gift?

#### 9. Wild animal
- Do you like to see animals in the zoo?
- What is your favourite wild animal?
- Are there many wild animals in Vietnam?
- Is it important to protect wild animals?
- Do you often watch TV programs on wild animals?

#### 10. Make Plans
- Do you usually make plans?
- What about your time management ability?
- Is it easy to manage time for you?
- Do you like planning things?
- Why can’t you make plans?
- Do you like doing things step by step or making a long-term plan?

#### 11. Languages
- What languages can you speak?
- What languages would you like to learn in the future?
- How do you learn a foreign language?
- How are languages taught and learned in your school?

#### 12. Street Market
- What do people usually buy on the street market?
- Are there many supermarkets in your country?
- Why do so many people prefer street market than supermarket?
- When was the last time you went to a street market?

#### 13. Taking Photos
- Do you take photos by camera or phone?
- How to deal with pictures after you take them?
- Do you want to learn photography to improve your skills of taking photos?
- How will people in the future take photos?
- Is it good to reserve photos in a cellphone?

#### 14. Perfume
- Do you use perfume?
- What kind of perfume do you like?
- What does perfume mean to you?
- Do you give perfume as a gift?

#### 15. Sharing
- Do you have anything to share with others recently?
- Did your parents teach you to share when you were a child?
- What kind of things do you like to share with others?
- What kind of things are not suitable for sharing?

#### 16. Weather
- Do you prefer dry or wet weather?
- What kind of weather do you like most?
- What’s your favourite season?
- What kind of weather is typical in your hometown?

#### 17. Daily Routine
- Do you eat breakfast?
- Are you happy with your morning routine?
- Is there anything you want to change about your morning routine?

#### 18. Computer and Tablet
- What do you most often use a computer or a tablet for? (Why/Why not?)
- Can you remember when you first started using a computer or tablet? (When/Why not?)
- Do you sometimes find computers or tablets difficult to use? (Why/Why not?)
- How would your life be different if there were no computers? (Why/Why not?)

#### 19. Meeting new people
- How often do you meet new people? (Why/Why not?)
- Do you find it easy to talk to new people? (Why/Why not?)
- When you meet someone for the first time, do you know if you like them? (Why/Why not?)

#### 20. Do you worry about what people you meet think of you? (Why/Why not?)

#### 21. Flowers
- Do you like flowers?
- Do you like to receive flowers as a gift?
- Have you planted any flowers?
- What kinds of flowers do you know?
- Are there any flowers that have special meanings in Vietnam?

#### 22. Reading or Newspapers
- What is the best age for children to start reading?
- How important do you think the news is?
- How do you usually find this news?
- Do you prefer reading newspapers or magazines? (Why?)
- Do you think news is easier to read online than in newspapers? (Why/Why not?)
- What kinds of information in newspapers or magazines do you find most useful? (Why?)

#### 23. Evenings
- What do you usually do in the evening? (Why?)
- Do you spend your evenings in the same way on weekdays and at weekends? (Why/Why not?)
- How did you spend your evenings when you were younger? (Why/Why not?)
- Is there anything you don’t like to do in the evenings? (Why/Why not?)

#### 24. Collecting things
- Do you collect things?
- Are there any things you keep from childhood?
- Would you keep old things for a long time? Why?
- Where do you usually keep things you need?

#### 25. Watches
- Did you wear a watch when you were a child? (Why/Why not?)
- Have you ever received a watch as a gift? (When/Who from?)
- Do you usually wear a watch now? (Why/Why not?)
- Why do you think some people like to wear expensive watches?

#### 26. Movies
- Do you prefer to watch movies at home or in a cinema?
- Do you prefer to go to a movie alone or with others?
- What kinds of movies do you like best?
- What kinds of movies did you enjoy watching when you were young?

#### 27. Neighbors
- Do you know your neighbors?
- What do you think of your neighbors?
- How do you get along well with your neighbors?
- Do you think it’s important to have a good relationship with one’s neighbors?

#### 28. Writing
- Did you like writing when you were a child? Why/Why not?
- What kinds of things do you write during a typical day? Why/Why not?
- Do you think the kinds of things you write will change in the future? Why/Why not?
- Do you prefer typing or writing things by hand? Why?

#### 29. Chocolate
- Do you like eating chocolate?
- Did you give chocolate to someone as a gift?
- Did you like chocolate when you were a child?
- When was the first time you ate chocolate?
- Why do you think it’s so popular?
- Do you think people use chocolate differently now than in the past?
- Is chocolate good for our health?

#### 30. Outer space and stars
- Do you learn about outer space and arts at school?
- Do you enjoy watching films about outer space and stars?
- Do you want to study about outer space and stars?
- Do you want to travel to outer space in the future?

#### 31. T-shirt
- Do you usually wear T-shirts?
- Do you like T-shirts with pictures or prints?
- Do you think older people who wear T-shirts are fashionable?

#### 32. Sports
- Did you do any sport when you were younger? (Why/Why not?)
- Have you ever supported a sports team? (Why/Why not?)
- Do you enjoy watching sports? (Why/Why not?)
- Do you think there is too much sport on television in your country? (Why/Why not?)

#### 33. Library
- Do you often go to the library?
- Would you ever like to work in a library?
- Did you use a library more when you were younger?
- How common is it for children to visit libraries in.../ your country?

#### 34. Birthday
- What do you usually do on your birthday?
- What did you do on your birthday when you were young?
- Do you think it is important for you to celebrate your birthday?
- Whose birthday do you think is the most important to celebrate in Vietnam?

#### 35. Happy things
- Is there anything that has made you feel happy lately?
- What made you happy when you were little?
- What hobbies or activities make you feel happy now?
- Do you think people are happy when buying new things?

#### 36. Staying up late
- Do you often stay up late at night? (Why/Why not?)
- Did you stay up late more often when you were younger? (Why/Why not?)
- What do you generally do when you stay up late? (Why/Why not?)
- How do you feel the day after you have stayed up late? (Why?)

#### 37. Internet
- When did you start using the internet?
- How often will you use the internet?
- Do you use the internet much during the day?
- How does the internet influence people?
- What would you do without the internet?

#### 38. Schools
- Do you like your school?
- Do you think it is a good place to study? Why?
- What changes do you want to make in your school?

#### 39. Exciting things
- What did you find exciting when you were a child?
- What is the most exciting thing you’ve done recently?
- Do you prefer a relaxing or exciting holiday?
- Do you think extreme sports are exciting?
- Would you like to go climbing or diving?

#### 40. Challenges
- Do you like challenges?
- Do you usually seek help when doing challenging things?

## PART 2
- Describe a good law/rule in your country (rule at work or school)
- A person who likes to cook for others
- Describe a child (spend time with a young child)
- Describe a good decision you made recently
- Describe an important plant (flower) that grows in your country (park/garden)
- Describe a depression period you face -> busy time
- Describe a transportation (public facility/transport)
- Describe a vehicle you want to buy
- Describe a new law that you want to implement in your country
- Describe someone give you money as a gift
- Describe an item you made by hand
- Describe a person who has the ability to buy things at lower prices
- Describe an old famous building/historical building in your city
- Describe a TV show that you like
- Describe a restaurant you like
- Describe a gift/present you gave to someone
- Describe a book that you like
- Describe someone you feel happy when you meet them
- Describe a famous tourist destination
- Describe a scientist you admire
- Describe a person who encouraged you and helped you achieve a goal
- Describe a goal you have set a long time ago but wanted to achieve
- Describe a song you sang when you were a child
- Describe a helpful person
- Describe a club/team
- Describe a risk you’ve taken which had a positive result
- Describe your favourite part in a house
- Describe a kind of climate you would like to live in
- Describe a time you encountered event
- Describe a wild animal
- Describe a natural talent you want to improve, like sport, music
- Describe a person who has apologised to you
- Describe a natural phenomenon
- Describe an astronomy event you saw
- Describe a pressure you had at school
- Describe a science subject that you dislike at school
- Describe a place where you thought things were too expensive
- Describe an artistic site
- Describe a place you took photos more than one time
- Describe a time when you wore beautiful clothes
- Describe an important river in your country
- Describe an international sport event that your country held
- Describe your favorite kind of weather
- Describe a time when you saw two of your friends argue
- Describe a time when you were friendly to someone you don’t like
- Describe an activity you usually do that wastes your time
- Describe a special day out which doesn’t cost very much
- Describe an interesting place that attracts few visitors
- Describe a book that you had when you were a child
- Describe a journey by public transportation
- Describe a mountainous area which you enjoyed
- Describe an object that you own but would like to replace
- Describe a place you visited near water
- Describe a short journey you often make that you really do not like
- Describe a selfie you caught in your phone on your favorite occasion
- Describe a piece of shocking news you recently heard in your community
- Describe a meaningful lesson from a textbook when you were at school
- Describe an adventurous person that you know
- Describe a sport game that you watched and you want to try in the future
- Describe a time someone congratulated you when you have done something well
- Describe a party
- Describe a famous person as a role model
- Describe an unusual measure/action you took to overcome a challenge  
- Describe a historical figure in your country  
- Describe an ideal field you think will be popular in the future  
- Describe two people from the same family  
- Describe a kind of foreign food you tried  
- Describe a dream that you remembered brought a negative result  
- Describe a traditional instrument you played  
- Describe a pet you raised at home and witnessed its development  
- Describe a thing you thought you were lucky not to receive it  
- Describe a person who thinks music is important  
- Describe a product you bought from another country